Okay, so, your job now is to try
a slightly different app that kind of
takes a few of the things that we
talked about and puts it in place.
So we have another app that, again,
make some network requests to honestly,
it's a JSON file under the hood
I'm not gonna lie to you.
But you can say how many
facts that you want.
I did not intend to make a pun,
that you hit Fetch to get dog facts.
I'm sorry, but then when I realized that
I could have changed it, and I didn't.
So, I guess I did intend to make a pun,
depending on how you think
about the time space continuum.
So you gotta go,
it will load in a certain number of facts.
This one also changes
the title of the page.
And so, if you wanna try the site title,
see if it changes appropriately,
you can do that, as well, but
it pulls in a number of facts.
Now, this is randomizing
it from a large JSON file.
If you wanted to, you could theoretically
create a picture where you're always gonna
get the same facts and
verify that your test.
Always depends on the problem you're
trying to solve, it doesn't really matter.
In this case, you wanna make
sure you got the right number,
what the content is doesn't
necessarily matter.
But maybe your current user, right?
Is always the same user with the same kind
of preferences or stuff along those lines.
But it's a chance to kinda go in and solve
some of the problems in there yourself.
Ideally, when they click the button,
we should go and
make sure that the API request was made,
right?
That's we saw that version
of that in the last example.
It's a little bit different this time, but
we should adjust the amount
when the select is changed.
So, anything along those lines should
show the correct number of facts, right?
That could either be you
testing the response, or
you testing what's rendered on the page.
I'll kinda leave it to whichever one seems
like a more interesting challenge to you.
And that we've changed the title,
the Clear button puts us back into this
empty state that you can see, as well.
Some different things to kinda try out
depending on which problems like to show
up in your code base, so,
you kinda wanna simplified
version to wrap your head around.
So, why don't you spend about five
minutes playing around with that, and
we'll do a few of the ones
that interest you,
together we'll kinda look through them,
as well.
So, a lot of these are kind of extended
practice around some things we saw
previously.
The biggest difference, instead of typing,
we are actively clicking
to trigger the API fetch, but
the end result is same, right?
We are stubbing it, or we're spying
on it and making sure that, in fact,
it was called, right?
The empty state should no longer exist as
soon as they've hit the button, right?
These things that we're kinda trying
to make sure of as we go through.
If they click for, we want to, and
there's I could probably simplify this
one a little bit, too, with the its syntax
that we saw before that I typed, as well.
Where we could even say,
cy.wait on that API.
Then or its, exactly what I did before,
its('request.url').
And you kinda see what's
really happening there.
We know that the interception is
the thing getting passed through.
Its is calling just basically
the same properties
on a nested object that we
would see in this case.
And we could say should contain,
include, match, whatever you want.
Write, as well.
All right, these are basically,
this is a little bit more explicit, but
this is probably easier and
cleaner to write, as well.
Let's set that one only and
see it kinda in action.
So, we've got the dog facts in that case,
all right, cool.
So, first one worked.
Yeah, cuz it didn't fire again,
cuz we didn't click the button twice.
Right, so, you can see that gets called
once, gets called the second time, but
both things are effectively
testing the same way.
One of the questions before is,
with selectors I know
that contains will not pass
it if doesn't contain it.
Actually I know that
works with DOM elements,
I don't really know if that
works with just strings.
So, let's find out together.
Yeah, so, contains will kinda be
a terminal one that you don't have to
necessarily have the showed on it.
If it's a select, if you're testing the
DOM, but if we're getting an actual string
going through, it's gonna go through
the regular assertion process.
Which is, yeah, so
we've learned that one together.
I was just like,
why do I always do it like this?
Cuz I probably got bitten once
in the very beginning, and
then developed the muscle memory.
And then since I forgot
why I do it like I do it.
But now I relearned it, so did you.
Cool, so, yeah, we can change the amount,
we should get the right results.
Again, testing the things that
are kind of under our control.
If you needed to really get
the same logic as the server,
I usually test the request to
make sure it was the request.
I trust that the server
is doing the right thing.
I wanna make sure that I'm
doing the right thing.
Could you use that kind of function that
takes the request and the response, and
then slices it and implement your
server logic again in your test suite?
You could, all right, then is your
test suite gonna need a test suite?
It is, right?
And so, while there might
be a part of your job is to
resist the urge to do stuff like that.
Because it feels good,
but you're just moving
the problem around in the sake
of just trying to get to
what feels like purity but
might not actually be.